[MUSIC]
Hello, my name is Eddie Valaitis and I am
a Director in PwC's Advisory Pharma and
Life Sciences Analytics Practice.
Before joining PwC,
I was a tenure track professor of
statistics at American University.
Now I focus on farmer research and
development,
applying my theoretical statistics and
machine learning
knowledge to a diverse set of complex
issues facing our by pharma clients.
These issues range from wrangling and
standardizing large datasets.
Accelerating drug development
by identifying those spacious of
populations more responsive
to particular treatments.
Accessing toxicity across specific
drug platforms and developing, and
implementing enterprise wide
clinical trial modernize solutions.
In this video, I'm going to talk
to you about our R in RStudio.
I'll describe what the tools are,
what they are used for and
I'll share a client example where R
was used to solve a business problem.
Why do we like R?
R is an open-source software
environment and language for
statistical computing, and graphics.
Open-source means that the language is
freely available and may be distributed
and modified by anyone, so that R has
a very active contributor and user base.
R is the leading statistical
analysis package,
as it allows the import of data from
multiple sources and multiple formats.
For example, flat files, SAS files and
direct connect to graph databases.
In addition to data
management capabilities,
R contains over 7,000 specialist
packages that are all free.
These packages allow users to
employ cutting-edge statistics,
econometrics, optimization, machine
learning and simulation techniques.
These all makes are the leading analytics
language in academia and industry.
There's also a set of integrated
tools design to help you be more
productive with R.
It's a powerful and user-friendly
graphics user interface called RStudio.
RStudio includes a console,
syntax highlighting editor that supports
direct code execution as well as tools for
plotting, history, debugging and
workspace management.
More specifically, RStudio includes
integrated R help and documentation.
The ability to easily manage multiple
working directories using projects.
A workspace browser and data viewer, and
and interactive debugger to diagnose,
and fix errors quickly.
RStudio allows users to
annotate code more fully.
Debug code more easily.
View data in spreadsheet format and
see all objects defined in a session.
What's more?
RStudio allows users to employ packages
for automated Word or PDF report
generation and also contains a powerful
visualization plugin called Shining.
Shiny allows development of iterative and
flexible visualizations, and
dashboards that can be accessed by
non-programmers via internet browsers.
As mentioned earlier, R is a powerful and
flexible analytics tool that can be used
to implement various data management,
statistical analysis and
machine learning tasks.
We could spend years going over all the
years all of the methods implemented in R,
but I will highlight some of
the most commonly used R features.
For data management,
R is used for importing data,
assessing data quality by identifying data
qualifiers, implausible information and
missing observations,
merging data as well as stacking data.
In summary statistics,
R helps create routine summary statistics
describing distribution of a variable.
For example, means, medians,
standard deviations and skewness.
For statistical tests,
R produces means tests, proportion tests,
association tests, distributional
tests and tests of stationarity.
In regression models, R is used for
ordinary regressions, logistic regression,
stepwise regressions, ridge regressions,
analysis of variance, multivariate
adaptive regression splines, support
vector machine nonlinear regressions.
For clustering, R is used k-means,
partitioning around medoids and
hierarchical clustering.
In dimensionality reduction,
R works in principal components and
multidimensional scaling.
And in decision trees and random forests,
R supports classification,
regression and survival trees and
random forests.
The flexibility of R makes
it the top choice for
executing complex data management and
statistical analysis client engagements.
For example, a leading by far more
organizations sought our help
in aggregating and
standardizing data across a drug platform.
Our goal was to identify tumor gene
expression cut points associated with
differentiated survival outcomes
to develop an interactive
visualization solution for
cut point identification and validation.
R was a natural choice for this engagement
as it allowed us to quickly import assess,
standardize and aggregate data
that were messy and incongruous.
For example, data had missing
variable labels, missing values,
multiple unit measurements for
the same variable across trials.
We then wanted to identify important
genes associated with survival after
accounting for confounding clinical and
demographic covariance using the random
forest technique for survival objects.
We then identified gene expression
cut points using survival trees.
We then followed it up with
cogs proportional hazards and
a number of more advanced barometric
survival models to assess whether
the identified cut points were associated
with differentiated survival outputs.
To bring all of the analysis to life,
we use an interactive Shiny visualization
that then allowed the client to
independently identify genes in their cut
points without having to program an R.
As you can see in our examples, R is
an important tool for data management,
analytics, statistical modeling and
machine learning.
So, we've covered a lot of
materials in this segment.
If some of the terms
were not familiar to you,
be sure to reference the course glossary.
[MUSIC]